The goal that my website is designed to achieve is creating an application that allows the user to keep track of stock data, market performance, crypto performance, and create custom lists of stocks/cryptocurrency that they add to, delete from, and categorize. I will include a section for users to view the top stock news stories so they can stay up to date on the latest information.

I anticipate that the demographic of users that will traffic my website is highly diverse. People young and old are invested or interested in investing in the stock market and I believe that my website will help by providing an application that will organize their stock investment portfolio and give them information as to which stocks/crypto they could potentially invest in next. I personally am invested in the stock market and I know at least a dozen people who are as well. I think that this application can be beneficial to people of all demographics. 

The data I plan on using for my application is data from an API named “Financial Modeling Prep”. According to their documentation, they are the most accurate financial data API on the market. The data I will specifically be requesting from the API is focused on individual stock prices, current data on market performance such as most active, most gainer, and sectors performance. More data that will be included is market index data such as information on the major indexes, and an up to date list of S&P 500 companies. Lastly, I will include data on the current crypto currency prices and stock news articles that have been aggregated by the FMP API according to popularity. 

My database schema will be formatted in a simple fashion. First, I will have a table named “users”. The schema will be id(PK), username, password, first_name, last_name, email. I will have another table called “fav-stocks/crypto”. The column in the table will be named id(PK), stock/crypto_symbol, stock/crypto_name curr_stock/crypto_price, exchange(FK), and user_id(FK). I will have another table named “exchanges” with a list of the most popular stock exchanges. The schema will be id(PK), exchange_name.

I currently do not anticipate any major issues with my API. There could potentially be a loss of server connection depending on a multivariate analysis of issues, but overall I do not anticipate any major hiccups.	When it comes to securing information, I will be using bcrypt hashing for all passwords saved to my “users” table in my database. The user flow will follow something similar to this. When the user visits the webpage they will be presented with a login page. If they have not registered with my application yet there will be an anchor tag to direct them to the sign up page. After logging in or registering they will be redirected to the homepage. The home page will have a nav bar that will allow the user to access the different routes on my website. The body of the homepage will present a general overview of the top 5-10 stocks, an overview of the current performance of the major stock indexes and at the bottom a list of the top stock news stories. If the user is not logged in they will not be able to create/view their custom lists.

The first feature that I will implement that will make my site more than CRUD is the ability to keep custom lists of stocks and crypto that they can categorize and modify. This will allow the user to make their user experience more personal instead of just viewing the current data on all stocks and indexes. The second feature that I will implement is the ability to share news articles viewed on my website through email. This will allow for a more social user experience in that they will be able to share information with friends and family and use my website as another resource for sharing market information. One stretch goal that I have for my website is to allow for a modular homepage. Instead of presenting the user with a preset format, I would like to allow the user to customize the homepage with information of their choosing. I have no idea how this would be accomplished but it’s a stretch goal after all.
